Add span queries (#9485)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _query-dsl/span/span-not.md

---
layout: default
title: Span not
parent: Span queries
grand_parent: Query DSL
nav_order: 60
---

# Span not query

> The `span_not` query excludes spans that overlap with another span query. You can also specify how far before or after the excluded spans the matches cannot occur.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `span_not` query excludes spans that overlap with another span query. You can also specify the amount of distance before or after the excluded spans within which matches cannot occur.
```

Author: Amount of distance -> distance

For example, you can use the `span_not` query to:

> - Find terms except when they appear in certain phrases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Find terms except when they appear in certain phrases.
```

> - Match spans unless they are near specific terms

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Match spans unless they are near specific terms.
```

> - Exclude matches that occur within a certain distance of other patterns

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Exclude matches that occur within a certain distance of other patterns.
```

> 

Reviewer: Line 16: "of other patterns" => "of another pattern"?
